---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome to the Blog"
date:   2017-01-01
categories: admin
---

I believe it was Albert Einstein that said: "If you're not learning you're dying".  Thruthfully, this quote and attribution come to me via pinterest but regardless of the source, the idea rings true to me. The mental state of learning is not something to turn to periodically when life requires it but rather a process that is part of life itself.

As a software developer I am constantly exploring new technologies and tinkering with a wide variety of tools. This blog is intended to share some of those ideas and learnings.

Some ideas for topics I may tackle in the future:

{% dot %}

    digraph ideas {
		Ideas [label=<<TABLE border="0" cellspacing="5" cellpadding="5" style="rounded"><TR><TD border="0">Ideas</TD></TR></TABLE>>];
		Design [label=<<TABLE border="0" cellspacing="5" cellpadding="5" style="rounded"><TR><TD border="0">Design</TD></TR></TABLE>>];
		Code [label=<<TABLE border="0" cellspacing="5" cellpadding="5" style="rounded"><TR><TD border="0">Code</TD></TR></TABLE>>];
		Test [label=<<TABLE border="0" cellspacing="5" cellpadding="5" style="rounded"><TR><TD border="0">Test</TD></TR></TABLE>>];
		Deploy [label=<<TABLE border="0" cellspacing="5" cellpadding="5" style="rounded"><TR><TD border="0">Deploy</TD></TR></TABLE>>];
		Monitor [label=<<TABLE border="0" cellspacing="5" cellpadding="5" style="rounded"><TR><TD border="0">Monitor</TD></TR></TABLE>>];

		Ideas->Design
        Ideas->Code
        Ideas->Test 
        Ideas->Deploy 
        Ideas->Monitor

    }
{% enddot %}

* Design
    * UML for developers overview
    * Generating UML diagrams from code
* Code
    * Using Jetty Servlet Container: Embedded v.s Stand-alone
    * Eclipse Che project - coding in the cloud; is it ready?
    * Using VIM as a Node.js/JavaScript IDE
    * JSON Schema for validating JSON objects
    * Introduction to Json Path 
    * XSLT and Xpath Basics
* Test
    * Automated web application testing with Selenium API using Java
    * Load testing with Java and Jmeter on DigitalOcean
    * Webdriver.io using Selenium with Node.js
    * Load testing with Python and locust.io on DigitalOcean
    * Automated testing of JSON APIs using Rest-Assured
    * Using wiremock to record and playback test data
* Deploy
    * Introduction to running Hyper-SQL database server
    * Implementing CICD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment) pipeline using Jenkins
    * Introduction to Docker
    * MongoDB Basics
* Monitor
    * Memory Monitoring java applications on Linux
    * Linux performance monitoring
    * Monitor Java JVM memory and runtime with JMX and jconsole
    * Creating performance graphs on the command-line using gnuplot

I hope to provide concise, useful and interesting articles on these and other topics.

Welcome to the blog and please check back soon for more articles!

